all right folks welcome back
all right so this is the tuesday january
25th 2022
ict mentorship on the youtube channel
all right so
this is the internal range liquidity and
market structure shift lecture
all right so i gave you homework on the
community tab if you have not been
paying attention to that that's where
i'm kind of keeping you abreast as to
what you should be expecting next or
something that just comes to mind that i
feel like sharing so this is the link i
sent out the other day
and i wanted you to go through
this particular chart
and look for reasons that provided the
market structure shift and the buy side
and sell side liquidity
so if you have not done that please stop
the video
and do that now otherwise you're
cheating yourself of learning
opportunity
all right so here is that chart
again 15 minute time frame on the e-mini
nasdaq 100 futures contract for march
delivery 2022.
and take your attention over here
okay this old low
and these relative equal highs see that
old low below that is cell stops
and relative equal highs above that is
buy stops
now you could have used this high here
there's nothing inherently wrong about
that but whenever i see
equal highs like this might and if it's
higher than an old high over here i'm
going to use that so that way there's a
little bit of insight for you for your
study journal
the sell side liquidity
you can see that the market trades down
hits that runs through it
then rallies all the way back up
clearing equal highs
so the buy stops have been taken here
okay so at both of these price points
here
and here
that's the
i guess the point at which you'll look
for or anticipate a market structure
shift
you don't force it okay i see a lot of
people try to teach my concepts it'll
talk about market structure breaks or
shifts and we'll use that term
interchangeably
but
for
intraday i want you to think about
intraday market structure shifts because
it's not necessarily a
break in market structure that leads to
prolonged
multi-day
movement okay
what do i mean by that
if you see a market structure that's
bearish
and it's broken to the downside
intraday that may just lead to an
intraday price leg that may eventually
see that high be taken out in the same
day so that's why i'm using the term
market structure shift
not market structure break
for our conversation here on this
mentorship just know that when i'm
gonna lean on that term market structure
break
it means a little bit more in context
versus an intraday shift in market
structure just means that there's likely
a downside
draw
or an upside draw intraday by saying the
term shift okay so there's a little bit
of semantics there
all right so we have
both of these areas
here
and here where there would be a
likelihood of a market structure shift
up here we look for a fake run above
here
so that fake run above how do we know
it's going to be a market structure
shift that's bearish
i get that question a lot even from
mentorship students
what you're looking for is the evidence
i'm going to show you here tonight okay
forget everything else everybody else
says about market structure breaks and
shifts and all that stuff
this is it okay this is the brass tacks
there's absolutely nothing else that you
need to know about it i promise you if
they add anything to it it's just
because they want to sound and look
different but this is the algorithmic
perspective of a market structure shift
in today
now keep
this price level in mind so it's
essentially fourteen thousand six
hundred
and fourteen thousand eight twenty we're
just eyeballing it okay
now dropping all the way down into a two
minute chart
this is that same particular day
here's those relative equal highs
and
this run down here
okay
if you recall
14 6
and around that 14 860 or so okay
if you look at this
market structure
without having the levels on your chart
it's easy to get lost
in all the quote unquote noise the
uninitiated and i know it's going to
razz the people that don't care to
really learn here
but the uninitiated folks that will
watch a video or listen to some of the
lectures i'll put out
they're trying to bring something in
they're trying to bring in their
preconceived notions and ideas about
what they think they understand about
markets or technical analysis or
something
in price action
and i want to kind of like
allow you to just put that aside for a
moment and just imagine
this chart
is the first time you looked at price
action for the first time and that's
hard but kind of like strip away
everything else that you want to
bring to the conversation no order block
discussion no breaker no none of that
stuff okay supply and demand elliott
wave all that garbage if you look at
this price action here
when we had this low form
right before this low was formed there's
a swing high right there
now in the first mentorship video i gave
you i mentioned that
high frequency trading algorithms
will use
market structure on a three minute two
minute and one minute chart many times
sub one minute that would be like
45 second
30 second 15 second intervals
okay
what the algorithms are actually doing
and
this is also going to correct a lot of
people out there because they put out
misinformation it's so nonsensical but
i'm challenging you to go into your
charts and see if this is not what's
actually going on because it happens
every day if high frequency algorithms
are operating every single day then
these signatures will be in the chart
okay
if you look at this short term high here
right before this low formed
when this
high is taken out right there on that
candle
that's significant
only
if this run down here
has traded into
sell stops
okay below an old love some kind it
could be a
a double bottom it could be a single low
okay but it's got to be trading under
some
retail idea that would be viewed as
support
up here the same thing
we're trading above
highs
so we know that above old highs
a neophyte perspective will be
these are unknown orders so therefore
that's a flawed perspective on price
action how do you know there's liquidity
up there how do you know there's buy
stops up there it's just logic
it's simple look at the chart
everybody's trying to do something based
on some kind of
theory logic whatever some system
there's buyers and sellers coming in at
all times
their buying and selling quote unquote
strength or pressure has absolutely no
bearing
on where these prices are going to go
i know that
may shake individuals that think they
know something about the markets oh i
have an uncle that used to be on the
floor of the chicago board of trade and
blah blah blah the mercantile exchange
guys say this i don't care okay i don't
care what any of those folks say because
they didn't design the algorithm
so
again
put all those
you know talking points and everybody
else's opinion you've adopted because
you probably heard someone else talk
about it
and you subscribe to the review because
it's easier just to do that instead of
going and looking at it for yourself and
that's what i'm asking you to do
i'm telling you this is my personal
belief
you're going to see proof of these
things
in a live account execution
but i want you to see the logic behind
it because if you can see this
you'll be light years ahead of everyone
else
and you'll laugh
in the face of all these people that are
going to tell you you're wasting your
time trying to learn this i promise you
this lesson is going to change a lot for
you
when this
run above these relative equal highs
happens right there you're anticipating
a market structure shift you're not
forcing it
you're not trying to get ahead of it
okay i don't think any of you are going
to have the skill set to do that there
are ways to know when to sell short
right above that not even wait for the
shift in market structure
just like there's ways to know to be a
buyer down here without seeing that
short term high broken
then looking for a buy
over here the opposite see this swing
low
let me go back to this for a second
we have this high
on this candle then we have the candle
right after that here the highest one
and then the lower
high of this candle here so that's a
swing high
very simple little pattern but it means
a lot when it's in the proper context
when this high is broken with this
particular candle right there that is
significant only on the basis that we
have taken liquidity out of the
marketplace
that's it
so when it broke this short term high
this is more meaningful
and then the market will start to seek
buy stops
okay or buy side liquidity that would
rest above here
here
and here now i shared an example of live
executions and i was teaching on the
idea of
utilizing micros which are essentially
two dollars per handle okay
so or 50 cents per tick
this chart is nasdaq e-mini this would
represent twenty dollars
per handle and there's four ticks in
each handle there's your twenty dollars
per handle okay so again what that means
is fourteen six eighty to fourteen six
eighty one that's one handle or four
ticks
there are some
that will doubt the idea that you can
trade all these little
internal
swings
okay and i'm going to give you some
insights on
how i was doing it okay the main
context of this lesson is for you to go
in
to your charts and try to prove me wrong
okay
that's the challenge here that's your
homework i want you
to learn what i'm doing in this lesson
here
and then you go into your charts back
testing and i'll show you what that
looks like what does it mean to be back
testing and what you're looking for and
how you're going to screen capture all
those things but your
mission is to go into the charts
and look for this not being true
okay this is exactly what i did on baby
pips back in 2010
i told everybody do not take my word for
it
don't take my word for it go into the
charts and see if this is true or not i
believe it
but i don't want to try to convince you
because i won't
you'll convince yourself once you start
seeing it
it's it it's over there's no argument
after that okay but it's simple logic
very simple this is a very clean chart
is it not
all i'm going to do is add a few
annotations and this is about as
extensive
of lipstick we put on our chart
i know it's shocking right
can you still see the candles
because it might be a little obstructive
i'm being facetious you see these guys
out there with these charts that have
graffiti all over it you can't even see
the price candle nothing you can't you
can't see any of it
but there's all kinds of overlays of all
kinds of nonsense which means absolutely
nothing because algorithms could care
less about any of that stuff triangles
harmonic this
crabs
it's crazy i know but hey everybody's
gotta have a religion
so here's those
cell stops
so this little area here shaded in
that's a
area where cell stops would be residing
below
that 14 600 level okay on that 15 minute
time frame
so
the market dove into that liquidity
and you may or may not know that is a
buy you don't need to
you anticipate a
shift in market structure
when the market rallies above when does
that happen on this candle right here
see that little light bulb that's when
you're thinking okay now i have a
condition in the marketplace
that i might see an opportunity intraday
let's see if there's further evidence to
that
high is taken here we traded above it it
does not need to close above that
okay real important
once that candle closes
and this candle opens you're gonna
monitor this candle and you want to see
as soon as this candle closes does it
create that fair value gap
if it creates a fair value gap again
that's a candle with a high one single
pass up
next candle has a load it doesn't
completely overlap all this
that's a fair value real simple okay
this candle is where you would look to
potentially trade at the earliest
because now there's a gap there the
market trades down into that
boom takes off here is insight
that everybody needs to understand
because they're out here running around
on youtube trying to teach order block
theory
order blocks
okay i invented it it's mine
no one talked about it before me and i
first mentioned it in 2010 on baby pips
prior to that 1996 i was only teaching
it to people one-on-one in teachings
that's it
okay you can't find it in books prior to
that it's mine
no one else taught it before me it is
mine so i'm going to correct all of you
today so that way you can teach your
people correctly and not hurt them
see these down closed candles
see that
that's all one continuous order block
what's it doing
it's inside that pool of liquidity cell
stops
where's the open on that
series of down closed candles right here
that's the price level extending out in
time boom
so inside this fair value gap this
opening price on the order block that's
your buy
plus
three pips or whatever for spread
and that's what you would use for a
limit order
hmm
that's pretty neat in it
well
price starts to run where
above the highs where by slots will be
here
above this high here
and above this high here now go back and
look at the example where
this particular day here
i put in orders
and i was still learning how to use the
thinkorswim platform and there's a
little toggle box where if you toggle it
it'll send your order right to the
marketplace it won't let you review it
and i had put that on to see if it was
going to show me any kind of information
on the screen but i didn't take it off
so what happened was i put that on it
was actually an order that i
mistakenly had in so i was hoping to see
if it could
give me an opportunity to get out of it
and cover with next to nothing or maybe
even squeak out a profit it wasn't
having it so i had to reverse and go
back and go short
wrote it down and then
you'll see me covering in here and then
going long
selling short
reversing going short
buying long in here
inside the order block rallied up
sold the long reversed it
bought it here
got out over here and resold for that
big run
into that okay
that's what i was doing there's people
out there going to tell you he doesn't
trade that way these people don't know
how i'm trading you have no idea how i'm
trading
none of you do okay
i'm teaching you
obviously for those individuals that are
outside my paid mentorship which is not
open so please stop emailing asking
people are still
sending me emails can i join no you
can't join be content with this i'm
teaching you gold
and it's costing you nothing but the
time to sit down here
and if it doesn't work you're going to
know right away
okay i'm not wasting your time
i'm going right into the brass tacks
that way the people that are weak minded
will know right away this is it or it's
not that way you'll know this is too
much work for you
and that's fine go and do whatever you
got to do and i wish you good luck but
the individuals that really put the time
in and test what i'm
challenging to look for you're going to
see it's there and it repeats like
clockwork okay it's real important you
have that mindset
so the buy stops
above here that was taken
this swing low forms once this candle
closes so this candle we're watching
does it go below that short term low it
does
so now we have a shift in market
structure that is now bearish only
because we've taken buy stops
okay
if everybody got forms the market
rallies up into that you go short there
what are you looking for
below here sell stops below here cell
stops below here cell stops and in this
fair bay gap here
so if you are in a position that has
multiple contracts or say you have
a forex trade because this works in
forex too it's not just limited to
futures
again i'm just using this asset class
because i cut my teeth on these markets
when everybody else was still in
elementary school that's trying to teach
today i was trading the s p
okay i probably sound like a young guy
but i'm actually getting turned 50. so
i've been around for a long time 30
years this november 5th 30 years that's
three decades
and the things i'm teaching you i'm not
teaching you one trick pony
insight these things work on all asset
classes now i'm not going to co-sign the
crypto markets because that
only my students are reporting that this
stuff works there i don't even mess
around with it that much then though
okay
but
you can take partials
below here i probably wouldn't do it
there but below here
here and there's something you're saying
why wouldn't you take them below their
ict well if you're trying to get short
here that's not really that much
movement so if you're going to take some
thing off your trade below that low why
not just try to reach for that one and
you could get it there right here okay
and then although that low is nice as
well
below this low and this is what i
mentioned on the first
lesson
okay elements to a trade setup
this is
below the 50
level of this high
and that low okay so 50 level that's
what we targeting now
this candle's low was the high end or
first objective
inside this gap
so that's your target you're gonna look
for that
so
you're looking for low hanging fruit the
easiest target to get to you're not
trying to be perfect and you grow into
eventually holding to see if it will
fill in that gap
okay this very very always going down to
this candle is high
that's
something that you
strive for over time
if
you understand what i just showed you
here
that's a very simple process of looking
for number one liquidity
gauging what happens without having to
know for certain because you don't know
you're not going to know until the
market shows its hand this is it showing
its hand
okay that's it
now
let's go into a one-minute chart and see
how that looks a little bit different
but still has the same characteristics
here's that same price structure
just on a one-minute chart
the same logic still there right
swing high taken after liquidity has
been traded into
this short-term high
it's violated right when this trades
down in here what's actually occurring
okay put this in your notes
high frequency algorithms are hammering
they're just throwing orders in bye bye
bye bye bye that is not okay here's an
important thing that is not causing
okay it's not causing
the market to go higher
it's just
volume that's coming in
the algorithms that deliver price
that offer price they're constantly
offering the price in the marketplace
that's what's beginning to spool and go
higher okay and regardless of where you
want to trade at your limit orders they
may not get filled
where you're trying to buy with a market
order
you may think you're getting in at 14 62
but by the time your order is executed
and confirmed you're in 14 664.
that's slippage
okay that's negative slippage if you
were trying to buy it at 14 62
and it filled you at 14 661 that's
positive slippage that's better than
what you were expecting
so
when price starts to rally
all this is is a default to
the algorithm constantly offering price
at a higher price
okay and the logic and argument for
anyone who wants to say oh it's buying
selling pressure this guy has no idea
he's talking about i know somebody that
used to trade on the floor and he's
laughing at ict right now okay
go into your charts forget that i'll
i'll let you have that
perspective for a moment for the
argument but go into the charts
and see if what i'm not suggesting to
you is the truth okay
i could sit here and do a complete
series on all the things that lead to
what i'm saying is true
but none of you will still believe it
i'm showing a live account and entries
and executions and they're still
doubting it
so no matter what i do there's going to
be people out there but you didn't do it
wearing orange
you didn't do it in your corvette did
you flip which i don't flip corvettes
you're getting all kinds of stuff out
there nonsense
but you don't see anybody going into
that robin's cup
hello
so
we're looking at the
swing lower here
market breaks down trades back back up
into this back up atmosphere you got
here
and sells off there's another favorite
you got right there trades up into that
as well this is a one minute chart so
it's giving you multiple
points of execution that you could trade
on
and then
dives
see these two candles here
that's one consecutive bearish order
block
the opening price
extended out in time
why is this a good a bearish order block
because it has that gap
and it's taken liquidity
and there's a market structure shift
there's your height frequency high power
high probability bearish order block
forget everybody else's
interpretation of my concept the order
block
that's it
okay what is an older block you do you
see a lot of people asking what is an
order block
only my students and mentorship know
what an order block is okay what it is
it's just change in the state of
delivery
okay it's a change in the state
of delivery
the market's being offered higher higher
higher in these two up close candles
how did this series of up close candles
begin with this candle's opening right
there
that opening
once this candle trades below it
that changes the state of delivery so
you go back to that point of reference
right there
and that's why it's sensitive the
algorithm remembers that right there
okay that's all i'm going to give you on
the free mentorship level but that is
your answer
okay that is what an order block is it
is a change in the state of delivery
much in the same way all of this
movement down here all these down closed
candles the opening on that candle
starts this series of delivery on the
downside
when that opening price gets violated
here
it changes its state of delivery now it
was offering
sell side
when it goes above that opening now it's
offering buy side what will it be doing
after that it will be looking for buy
stops buy stops buy stops because it's
offering buy side liquidity
see you guys don't even know what you're
talking about you're trying to teach my
concepts
and you have no idea what you're doing
you're talking about things in the left
side of the chart
trade it
do it okay
you don't even know what you're looking
at
and you're hurting the people you call
your students
and then right away when people
don't know how to use them or understand
what to do with them
they'll say well this stuff doesn't work
because they learn from someone who
doesn't know what they're doing
okay
it's it's blatantly obvious what it is
but okay
same thing here
buy side is being offered until that
opening price is violated right there
then the change of state of delivery
occurs now the market's going to be
doing what
offering sell side liquidity what's that
mean it's going to start going lower and
attacking the sell stops all the sell
sell equity it's offering it to the
marketplace that's what's happening
that's what the algorithm is doing
that's what the algorithm does okay you
buying and selling me buying and selling
everybody over there on reddit is not
going to change
anything
at all it's not going to do anything
and the argument that defeats all that
buying and selling pressure is how do
you argue against the bull squeeze and
the bear squeeze there's a short squeeze
going on the market's rallying up when
it's been bearish
that's just their cop-out that's their
way of saying well you know
everybody shorten and now they're
covering so there it is and i learned
the same thing folks i believed all that
garbage
two thousand plus books i know
what those books told me is what you are
learning too
because the same people teaching today
retail garbage
elliott wave this and that
it's all stupid stuff man it has nothing
to do with why these markets are doing
what they're doing
zero has nothing to do with it
don't worry i got proof
today but the market goes down to that
50 level because it's going down to what
i teach you what did i say in the first
video
it's going down from a premium
market
relative to this low and this high
50 is here that's equilibrium so it's
going to go down to a discount and
that's that gap right in here it doesn't
look like a gap so much here but if you
go back up one more time
that's that single opening right there
on a two-minute chart and then on a
one-minute chart it's two candles that
make that up but you're gonna have to do
is go through a progression of going
from the three minute two minute and one
minute chart and you'll get your market
structure and your
areas of where it wants to look for an
imbalance or overload high and it just
makes it easy
but just a real nice delivery there
and here's the lipstick on it on the one
minute chart
swing high is broken
market structure is now bullish
rallies
taking buy stops taking buy stops taking
buy stops
this right here these highs right here
is just staying below that low it's
building up
more interest that this is what
resistance
that is engineering liquidity
that way
when this runs above it
those individuals that know what you're
learning today they know that that's a
pool of liquidity for buyers coming in
at a high price why is that useful
because smart money that bought down
here or here or here or here or here
that's where they sell
to high
seeking
buyers
it's not hard logic folks it's not
complicated
okay it just feels complicated because
you see other people trying to teach
something and you hear or read in the
comments you're teaching it better than
ict does no you don't
[Laughter]
no you're not you're not doing you're
actually teaching it incorrectly and
without the real context of what it is
that you're missing
but i get it you think every down closed
candle is a bullish order block and up
claim that one is a very short block and
that's not the case
look in here
okay for the guys that say i did not
take trades or i didn't trade this way
see that gap right there see that see
that down closed candle right there
that's your order block boom by it right
there
what about this
right here
dropping down
all these candles here
are more
significant if you look at it on the two
minute chart
see that it becomes one order block
right in here
buy it sell short buy it again
we got up into the stops
sell short reverse and ride the larger
swing down
don't listen these yahoos out there to
say that i'm not proving something to
you i'm proving it that's what i said i
was going to come out here this year and
do that's this whole point of being here
this year
it's my 30th anniversary
november 5th
i've been a trader
in the markets
living and breathing this stuff for 30
years
you're not
really in any position to demand
anything from me i enjoy doing this
but i don't need to provide any kind of
proof to you either but i'm loving it
this year
i'm
slowly putting it out there and enjoying
all the naysayers and the things they're
saying
and it's just fun because they have no
idea what i'm about to bring this entire
year
none of you are going to doubt anything
so the one-minute chart
just a real nice delivery here as well
filling in that very value you got
change in the state of delivery
now it's offering sell side what's that
mean it's going to match up
sell stops it's going to keep going
below old lows
into an imbalance until we get down to a
discount
is that hard
is it hard to see
what i'm showing you here
pretty clean isn't it clean chart now i
don't have all these things
on my chart when i'm watching price
because i already know what i'm looking
for
and i don't want to have any
distractions and i don't want to have
a level or some kind of annotation
that's going to keep me thinking only
with that perspective okay or that idea
it allows me to be fluid
with
what the market's actually doing
versus going in and saying okay this is
what i think is going to happen and this
is the only thing that can happen
you understand what i just did there
i allow myself to be flexible whereas if
you have all these things you're putting
on your chart
you're only
only seeing your will be done
so i keep my charts
clean
and then i add the annotations so that
way my students can see
what the internal dialogue in my mind
was while watching price do what it does
naked there's nothing on the charts at
all when i'm trading zero nothing okay
so with that
i want you to think about
how this is useful okay
number one
you're looking at
london highs and lows the session for
london
open okay for instance like two o'clock
in the morning at five o'clock in the
morning
new york time every time i tell you just
always set it
with new york local time
two o'clock to five o'clock in the
morning that's your london session
what's the highs and lows of that
session okay
that's important because the market's
going to probably sweep above those
highs or sweep below those lows and
create situations like this okay
and the new york session is seven
o'clock in the morning to 10 o'clock in
the morning new york local time okay
what's the session high and low for that
and do the same thing for asia okay 7
p.m to
9 p.m
and that's it those are the three times
of the day that i'm looking for specific
key highs and kilos
and
any intraday high and low forming right
before the equities open at 9 30.
pretty easy right the hours of operation
again are generally between 8 30 in the
morning until 11 but it can be extended
to new york lunch noon i do not
tend to
take trades after
noon local time in new york that hour is
usually very problematic and it just
it's better not to even look for any
kind of setups wait until one o'clock
preferably really 1 30
to 4 o'clock then you get that afternoon
trend
typically you'll see between two o'clock
and three o'clock there's a setup that
usually forms in the afternoon trend or
set up in that period of the time of the
day
that will also offer opportunities but
that's outside the scope of what i'm
going to be teaching in this mentorship
but there's lots of things you can look
on youtube about the afternoon session
and you can just combine some of the
things that i'm going to teach you here
and just it's not hard to make a
you know an addition to
what you're learning here so if you want
to trade the afternoon session you can
obviously pick up some insights from
other youtubers that do trade futures
but
for developing students this is enough i
promise you this is enough okay
all right so we talked about internal
range liquidity
and internal range liquidity is looking
for
short-term lows or short-term highs
inside a price leg that we're retracing
back into okay that's all it means
internal range liquidity is a short term
higher low with stops above or below it
or an imbalance in that same
range of price action
and i taught you market structure shifts
showed you exactly all that's necessary
that is all that you require
and the skill set of identifying pools
of liquidity
that is going to be something you learn
rather quickly just by going through old
data and looking at the times of the day
i gave you in this lecture all right
your homework is you're going to go
through your e-mini futures intraday
charts
and you'll be looking for stop hunts
that lead to market structure shifts
intraday you're going to log your
examples with your own annotations for
your study journal
so what i showed with the break in the
market going higher and lower above
old highs or lower below an old low
that's running for stops that's a stop
hunt
then you're looking for that signature
for the market structure shift on the
three two and or one minute charts okay
if you look for that between 8 30 in the
morning to noon new york local time
in the e-mini markets or if you're
watching the micro markets
the same logic exists okay but you're
going to start going back from today
and go back as far as the data will
allow you the more you do it and you
annotate your charts the more experience
you're going to have and it's pseudo
experience yes but you're teaching your
brain i use this analogy a lot with my
paid mentorship students
it's like hunters okay
to know where you're gonna find a deer
if that's what you're going to go out
and hunt you need to know how to track
one okay or sit up in this tree stand
and wait for it to walk by but usually
they go out and they walk around in the
woods and look for tracks
would you know what a deer track looks
like before i was shown one i didn't
know what it was okay but
because i'm showing you what it looks
like that's all this lesson was
predominantly focusing on is the
actual
view of what it looks like the details
what you don't need is anything above
and beyond what i've shown you
the only thing you need is what i've
shown you here it's simple it's straight
to the point
and i'm only talking to that way you
understand
that this is all that is required
notice there is no commitment of traders
notice there's no breakers notice that
i've stripped it down to the chrome now
this is the only way you can trade but
i'm showing you something that i think
personally is in my opinion this is so
universally simplistic
all of you should be able to do this one
okay in my opinion i think this is it
and that's why i
more or less built it because i think my
daughter which has zero interest in
trading
i think that this is going to be easy
for her to see it and understand what to
look for it doesn't have a lot of moving
parts notice that it's very specific
times of the day specific highs and lows
you're going to look for
it's simple
but you won't appreciate how simple it
is until you go back into your charts
and you annotate your 15-minute time
frame for your
buy-side liquidity pool and your
sell-side liquidity pools
and then going down into the
three-minute two-minute moment chart so
for every individual day that you're
logging
and you're back testing back testing is
just dressing your chart up like i'm
showing you here
and then studying it not just do it say
okay i'm done really going to see how
price moved and how it delivered
how many pips did it move
how long did it move going higher or
lower
how much drawdown did it put on your
position if you would have taken one
all of those things you want to annotate
that in your chart so that way when you
go back through your study journal
you'll have many examples that look at
and because you're looking at it and
you're seeing it over and over again
repetitively
when you have a period of time where
nothing feels like it's working and you
feel confused you want to go back
through your study journal and look at
these examples because it will encourage
you through periods of time where you
just feel like it isn't clicking okay
it's why it's important to have a study
journal because you're going to see this
stuff is happening every single day
every single day and don't
take the infancy that you have right now
and the lack of experience
and amplify that to there's no way i can
learn how to do this because that's a
lie that's a facade don't buy into that
view okay it's something that you're
going to have to grow into and it's
going to be quick for some and it's
going to be slower for others and
there's no way i can make it easier than
this okay because that workload that you
have to go through of back testing and
logging and acquiring examples the more
time you do that
the more examples you acquire in back
testing i swear this is the secret okay
because that is the thing
that's the work that's required
a lot of people say they do it but they
don't okay they go back a couple days
and say oh this is i don't think i'm
getting anything from this
but that's the reason why they fail
because that's the work that's required
you know having 10 pages in a notebook
saying i took notes and you didn't take
notes you scribbled you wasted your time
you knew going in you weren't going to
be that
headstrong about doing it and that's
what is required to learn this otherwise
if you don't have that mindset this
isn't going to be for you because it's
going to require work it's going to take
effort and organization and personal
responsibility if you don't have those
characteristics you need to develop them
if you don't develop them and patients
you must go out there and find somebody
that's good at giving you trade signals
and just submit to that
and you good luck with it
but this isn't it i got another portion
of the video i want to show you now and
i'm going to show you this logic
actually working today in the nasdaq
e-mini contract
all right so we're looking at
trading views chart in the backdrop and
i have
the td ameritrade
open over top of it scrunched down so
that way i can
operate with the trading view and i'm
going to highlight in trading view
a fair value got after a market
structure shift it's bullish
and i'm going to show you an imbalance
that is in a premium
okay see that just the opposite of what
i've been showing you
change the color on this
and the idea is i want to see it drop
down into that green area but if you
look real close there's actually a
smaller little fair value got just below
that green box okay this is not supply
and demand okay
the idea is i want to see it
drop down to that green box
and i don't know if it's going to dip
into the lower fare value cap so
whenever there's two fair value gaps
like this this is for your notes in case
you missed this
the idea is
i'm going to let it trade down to that
lower one i'll sacrifice that
better entry and if it trades down there
and trades into it
and then comes right back up into that
green box the first higher fair value
gap i'll enter when it's in there
and expect that the lower one won't be
retraded to okay
i'm going to be trading with
a stop that will have
essentially three and a quarter percent
risk
i'm not suggesting that's a size of risk
for you i'm just telling you that's what
i have in mind when i'm taking this
trade
and this is again just my personal
belief in this i'm not suggesting that
you should believe me or you subscribe
to this view because i'm showing you a
live account this does not mean that
every trade you take forward from this
day on is going to be like this it
doesn't mean it guarantees profit it
doesn't but my belief in my faith is
that i've seen this work so many times
over the last 30 years that i know
that this is something that's going to
work
enough for me
and that's all that matters it's a
personal endeavor when you're
speculating
if you don't have any faith in it then
obviously you would never put live money
in it
all right so the market's starting to
drop down a little bit in here
and let's say for instance that it runs
up into that
upper rectangle first before going down
to the green one then i would nix the
trade and that means i wouldn't take a
trade and i'd move to the sidelines and
probably do nothing the rest of the
morning or watch and see if there's
something else that sets up
all right so now i'm inside that
rectangle but notice again
i want to see if it goes down to that
lower fair value gap that's not
highlighted i'll mention it when we get
into it
that right there i'm willing to
sacrifice that because that's actually
the better buy
but if we go back up into the higher
fair value gap
and create like a tail
on this particular candle
i'll see that as just running for a
lower imbalance and then
it should accumulate in here
and i have my trigger on the buy button
okay i'm just going to go in with a buy
at market
not trying to do anything
advanced here
okay and if you look at the bottom of
the td ameritrade live account module
you'll see nasdaq symbol and
you'll actually see my profit loss going
as the trade is entered
and i took a trade in the e-mini s p and
it was basically a scratch i ended up
making 75
so i put a trade on and
came back on me stopped me and that was
the end of that
all right there i am
putting the order in
and there's the confirmation that the
orders were received
so now i'm long you can see at the
bottom of the
pop out
it shows that i'm down
initially
what looks like 20 i know i'm up 20
right now so
now down 75.
so this is the part of trading where it
feels scary if you've never traded with
live funds
and you just feel like you got to watch
that number of how much money you're
making and losing that's the worst thing
to do okay
what i'm watching is
the chart
does the chart continuously
keep giving me feedback
visually that it's accumulating and not
going lower
now it can go one more time back into
that lower fair value gap that's
permissible to me i'm willing to endure
that
i just don't want to see it overlap that
entire thing and go lower because then
i'd have to close the trade and
preferably save my stop
notice the bodies of the candles are
staying relatively inside that fair
value got the shaded green
now i again i'm only adding this
to the chart because i knew i was going
to record it and share it with you today
but i do not have this in my charts
okay the only annotations i have in my
charts is when i'm teaching my students
and since you're here
at least for right now
i'm calling you my student
even the haters
all right
so with the
aid of
hindsight because i lived this moment
this morning
it does go down one more time
and stab into
those wicks that are forming
now when you put a trade on
you kind of like
give the complete control of everything
to the marketplace
and you want to just allow the market to
do what it's going to do and not try to
overthink
every fluctuation
every little minor movement in the price
action
is
not something that is going to hopefully
sway you so i've already had it in my
mind that it could go back down and make
a slightly lower low than those two
little wicks that it's formed inside the
lower fair value gap
so since i had that expectation that it
could potentially do that
i'm
desensitizing myself to that in the
event that it forms
an ideal scenario would be it doesn't do
it at all obviously but
i'm allowing for that price action
especially with the volatility that
we've been seeing the last few days
and what i'm thinking right now is
they're taking it down one more time to
accumulate more longs
notice i'm saying that not it's selling
pressure driving price down
i think this uh
this is where i took the most heat on
the trade if i'm not mistaken i think
it's like 455 dollars of
trade drawdown while being still in the
trade which is below the threshold i've
already said
my maximum risk
on a trade if i'm trading competitively
is four and a half percent per trade
generally i like to take a trade that i
feel comfortable with around three
three and a half percent that's a good
trade for me
okay showing signs initially that it's
wanting to go higher
and what i'm trying to do is keep my
focus on that lower
level or the the bottom of that pink
rectangle that's the low hanging fruit
that's the easy target i'm telling you
to try to practice and learn to reach
for the ideal scenario would be to go
all the way to the top of that pink
but while you're learning don't do that
okay
it's easier just to let it trade the low
end
and just take it off when it gives it to
you
i have my trigger on the flatten button
so it cancels every order
takes me completely out of the
marketplace
as soon as it touches the low end of
that rectangle
i'll collapse the trade
right now i'm up seven nine almost nine
hundred dollars eight ninety five nine
thirty five
nine twenty five
and again you can watch that fluctuation
in the lower right hand corner of the
pop out
i'm at 1100 plus
11.49
okay traded there touched it now i'm
collapsing the trade there just like
that and that's it
now my account's booked and mark to
market
with eleven hundred
ninety dollars and
gain in the balance now reflects it with
twenty seven thousand nine hundred
fifteen dollars and eleven cents so
there's trading view
showing the chart i'm watching because i
like trading these charts i don't like
td ameritrades charts it's i don't like
them so i'm just using the pop out which
is why are you showing us things
scrunched up you're just i'm not hiding
anything you can see it it's right there
so
let's go over and take a look at the
chart now
you can see nothing has changed i just
magnified that pop out so it's entirely
taking up my entire screen
we're gonna go to
the nasdaq e-mini contract
simple
and i am so clumsy with this platform
still
and i'm sure i'll get real good at by
the middle of the year and not nudge
all right so we're gonna look at this
day
and there's the chart on one minute and
i'm gonna add an overlay okay
but i'm going to put in so you can see
where the trades are
in that chart there's the executions
and there is these areas i showed you on
the trading view chart
so
for the inquiring minds that wanted to
see a live chart and live account and
all that business and the logic of what
i'm teaching in the youtube channel
i humbly submit this
and so i'll talk to you on
thursday be safe